    Isomorphic JavaScript

Several years ago, web pages were only using HTML (and eventually CSS) without many interactive elements.Each user action required
servers to create and serve an entirely new page. Once JavaScript and Ajax emerged, web developers created pages that do not need
to reload while communicating with servers (dynamic content).

Modern day client-side code shares a lot of responsibilities, which introduced a new kind of application, referred to as the
single-page application (SPA). In an SPA, all the necessary assets are retrieved with a single page load, or dynamically loaded
and added to the page as necessary.

SPAs are good at interactivity because they keep communications with the server as low as possible. However, they do have
some problems.

As SPAs download all the required data during the initial load, the first load-up is slower than normal. If the load times are
too long, it can lead to an increased bounce rate, and ultimately a loss of revenue. According to a research, “a 10ms increase
in page load time costs the site $250K in revenue annually.”

Search Engine Optimization of SPAs is difficult, because web crawlers find them difficult to index. One reason for this
difficulty is the lack of HTML content. Servers don’t produce HTML content, because they heavily rely on JavaScript execution.
Web crawlers analyze the data from servers as raw text.

An Isomorphic JavaScript application can run both on the client and on the server. Therefore, you can write the code once and
then run it on the server to render static pages and on the client side to allow fast interactions. This approach takes the
best of the two worlds and lets you avoid the two issues described above. These apps can provide UIs that feel faster and more
interactive than traditional web apps.

There are a lot of frameworks that can help you in developing isomorphic JavaScript applications.
One of them is Meteor, which is an open-source JavaScript framework, written on top of Node.js, that focuses on real-time
web applications. Another small library developed by Airbnb is Rendr, which let you run Backbone.js apps on both the client
and the server.


WHAT IS ReactJS ?

React is a Javascript library developed by Facebook. It’s sometimes known as the V in Model-View-Controller (MVC).
But, it’s so much more than that.

Its aim is to allow developers to create fast user interfaces easily. The main concept of React.js is virtual DOM.
It is a tree based on JavaScript objects created with React that mimics a DOM tree. It does the least amount of DOM
manipulation possible in order to keep your components up to date.

React was born at Facebook. Once Instagram joined the company, the team began to look for ready-made tools to build
the Instagram web app. They convinced Facebook’s team to open source and share the React framework. Since then,
the open-source project has been shared with the world.

You’ve probably already used a React-based website. Facebook’s Messenger.com and Instagram’s web app both currently
run React in production. Other successful projects using React.js include Khan Academy and New York Times.


Why ReactJS ?

ReactJs is a javascript library, that helps you to build component based, fast, efficiently rendered view layer
for your web applications. React views are usually written as components that can contain some logic, JSX code
(similar to HTML) and other components as well.
You can build React applications from the components, as you would build houses using ready, well tested reusable modules.

1. Simplicity
Yeah, ReactJs is just simpler to grasp right away. The component-based approach, well-defined lifecycle and use of just
plain Javascript make React very simple to learn, build a professional web (and mobile applications) and support it.
Since React is just a good and well-designed View you can decide on tools, which you understand to store, update and fetch data.

2. Component-based approach
ReactJs application is just a set of components you wrote yourself or imported from the community.
Wait, but why components are so good? Answer is pretty simple, components:
– Composable. You can compose two simple components to some more advanced component.
– Reusable. The sample component can be reused 2 or more times.
– Testable. Since components are good isolated, so they can be well tested. For example, we can test component’s
behavior based different input.

ReactJs applications usually look like a hierarchy tree. Root or parent components manage child components and
pass state to them, and child components just render things based on that input to the state.

4. Performance and VirtualDOM

If ReactJs views do should change the output on state change, it could be a problem if a state would change too frequently.
Rendering to DOM is super slow and resource expensive, so we need to be careful with abusing DOM with meaningless updates
(like in AngularJs).
React solves this problem for us by using VirtualDOM. But what VirtualDOM is?
Virtual DOM just makes of blazing fast modern javascript engines and builds virtual DOM tree in memory.
Upon desired DOM update, requested by one of the react components it will calculate the most necessary and most efficient
update to the react DOM tree and perform the update.




The main use of ReactJS is to build complex user interface in which data changes over the time. Facebook was struggling with
complex user interface. Browser is meant to be slow. Facebook was looking for some library that will help them to make fast
rendering to the browser. So they invented ReactJS Library. It’s more of View in MVC architecture.

The number one benefit that ReactJS gives you is that it is incredibly fast. It utilises an in-memory DOM diffing feature
which means a copy of your DOM is kept in memory and any changes are made in memory and updated in the DOM when needed.

You can also use ReactJS by itself with Flux which is an architecture/methodology created by Facebook, not another library
you use with ReactJS. As Mattias pointed out, ReactJS gives you performance, the kind of performance you can only dream about,
it is incredibly fast.
